we start with the latest from the Israel
Gaza conflict the Hamas run Health
Ministry in Gaza says more than 10,000
people have now been killed in the strip
more than 4,000 of them are children it
comes after one of the heaviest nights
of bombardment in Gaza since the start
of the war with Israeli air strikes
hitting the north of the territory and
reports of huge explosions Israel says
it's now effectively divided Gaza into
two parts North and South 11 un agencies
and six humanitarian groups have called
for an immediate ceasefire urging Israel
to protect civilians and allow more food
water medicine and fuel into Gaza they
also called on Hamas to release the
hostages captured on October the 7th
some Aid continues to get through a
Royal Jordanian Air Force cargo plane
has dropped several containers of
humanitarian relief supplies over the
Gaza Strip at the update was shared in a
tweet by the Jordanian King Jordan State
News Agency said the consignment was
urgent medical Aid for the Jordanian
field Hospital in Gaza an Israeli media
Reports say that the airdrop was carried
out in coordination with the Israeli
military meanwhile the US has stepped up
diplomatic efforts in the region
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin has
left anchora after holding talks with
the Turkish foreign minister and the
country CIA director William Burns is
now in Israel urging greater effort to
avoid civilian casualties and the White
House has said that vice president Cala
Harris will discussed the conflict in a
phone call with unnamed foreign leaders
today well our Middle East correspondent
yolan Nell has the
latest opening fire Israeli forces say
they're advancing on the ground in Gaza
helping direct fighter jets they've hit
some 450 Targets in 24 hours the
military
says meanwhile a hospital car park
serves as a makeshift mour Place Health
official in Gaza say some 200 people
were killed
overnight about 1 and a half million are
now displaced many have left the north
for this Tent City here in the
South for some like Mina ales and her
family vehicles replace lost
homes we came here in Hope of finding
safety but this doesn't exist when
you're sleeping you'll hear Rockets
overhead there's no
security amid growing destruction the
heads of un agencies put out an unusual
joint statement condemning the spiraling
number of lives lost and torn apart on
both sides in the past month now in Gaza
they say an entire population is
besieged and under attack denied access
to the essentials for survival bombed in
their homes shelters hospitals and
places of worship this is
unacceptable Aid is is still only
trickling into Gaza overnight Jordan
says it resorted to an airdrop of
medical supplies for its filled Hospital
on the ground fewer lorries have entered
than used to come into Gaza on an
average day it's difficult to find
drinkable water food is limited now in
the market even in the South area the
AIDS are entering I mean it's it's
limited it's a it's a DOT I mean it's
not enough at all to to uh to fill the
gaps on a diplomatic Blitz the US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin was
in Turkey on his last Regional stop
trying to block an escalation in this
war Washington is trying to persuade
Israel to back a pause in fighting when
it comes to humanitarian pauses we're
engaged with the Israelis on the
particular practicalities of that one
critical aspect though is seeing
progress on uh on hostages that's
something we're uh intensely focused on
but we also believe that a a pause could
help uh advance that proposition as well
this lunchtime another protest calling
on Israel's government to bring home the
240 or so hostages being held by Hamas
another reminder of the anguish brought
by this war yoland Nell BBC News
Jerusalem well the heads of all major un
agencies have issued a rare joint
statement calling for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza after
last night saw some of the most intense
fighting since the War Began anra say
that the 88 people working for them have
been killed since the 7th of October the
highest number of un fatalities ever
recorded in a single conflict well let's
speak now to Juliet tumor anra director
of communications and obviously I'm so
sorry to hear about what's happened uh
to your colleagues in terms of the
ability of your people to work in Gaza
at the moment can you tell me about the
conditions they're working
under I don't I don't think we can hear
have line Sor sorry can you hear me now
yeah start again Juliet Sorry yes thanks
thanks I think it's only by a sheer
miracle that our staff on the ground in
Gaza the unsung heroes of the
humanitarian team in Gaza it's only by
miracle that they continue to push and
they continue to deliver assistance
under such harsh circumstances they
themselves have been displayed some more
than once they have lost loved ones and
obviously colleagues like you've said 88
colleagues of ours um they are
completely stretched as our resources
and supplies run out and the Israeli
government uh is not moving on these
calls for any kind of ceasefire even a
pause at the moment this I was just
talking to a spokesperson for the
government earlier saying unless the
hostages are released we won't consider
this pause that you're calling for it it
seems that they're not moving moving on
that right now look there should be a
ceas fire it's we're actually it's it's
it's far it's overdue it's overdo we're
too late it's been one month of Hell uh
nearly 10,000 people are reported killed
more than 4,000 children we lost 88
under our colleagues um the situation
goes from bad to worse by the minute our
shelters are overflowing they're
overflowing with people we are currently
hosting 700,000 people in our shelters
some people are being forced to sleep on
the on the floor because we ran out of
simple things like matrices so we got to
have the ceasefire we also have to have
this steady flow of humanitarian
supplies that come into Gaza since the
Convoy started on the 21st of October
what came in is only 6% of what Gaza
used to get every single day what when
we say it's a drop in the ocean we
really mean it it's a drop in the ocean
yeah on the issue of fuel and obviously
Israel has said that it doesn't want to
allow fuel into Gaza because it could
end up in the hands of Hamas what can
you say to Israel to convince them that
that that wouldn't be the
case Andra is asking for fuel we have
been asking for fuel for one month Gaza
has not received any fuel for one month
we he need it Andra needs it the
humanitarian the largest humanitarian
organization in Gaza needs fuel we need
it for our cars for our trucks for our
medical facilities how can you Ure how
can you ensure that that fuel if it was
allowed in to you how can you ensure
that it wouldn't end up in the hands of
Hamas it's coming to us it's coming to
be used in un marked cars and trucks
it's going to un marked facilities and
medical um medical centers it's coming
to Andra we will use it for humanitarian
purposes we Andra the largest
humanitarian agency in Gaza we saw um
yesterday this air drop by the
jordanians uh didn't we is that
something that could be possible uh for
other countries for other organizations
perhaps this airdrop of medical supplies
it went into the Jordanian field
Hospital didn't it inside
Gaza it's a last resort it's a very very
expensive operation to do air drops um
the UN rarely does it we've done it
recently in Syria in an area that was
under heavy heavy Siege we've done it
once in Iraq in one of the mountains in
the remote areas it's a last resort and
we don't think that it's actually
necessary in the context of Gaza because
there are plenty of other ways to get in
supplies including by Road well thank
you very much for talking to us I really
appreciate your time Juliet tumer there
from anra which is the the agent
focusing on Palestinian refugees thank
you let's go live to Southern Israel now
because we can speak to our
correspondent Mark Len and as you were
saying earlier a really intense night
and an intense morning Mark talk us
through what's been
happening yeah we've heard much of that
intense military activity Lucy from
where we are we're about 3 kmers about a
mile or so uh from the Gaza Strip and
all morning we've been hearing the the
frequent thud of outgoing Israeli
artillery on the ground from here but
also huge plumes of smoke billowing up
after the uh the air strikes that have
rained down on the Gaza Strip
particularly around Gaza City which has
now been completely encircled uh say say
the Israeli def Defense Forces as they
try to sever this the the Gaza Strip
into a northern part of the strip and a
southern part of the strip is Israeli
media are reporting that Gaza that the
Israeli troops could enter Gaza City
within 48 Hours uh once they get in
there will be more of course intense
Street to Street fighting they're
encountering we know mines and booby
traps on the streets and of course they
would face some of those deadly Hamas
tunnels it's estimated that Hamas has
dug up to about a thousand tunnels uh
sprawling underneath Gaza and Gaza City
very much thought to be the center of
that um so meanwhile the the the road
that that basically B that goes from the
north of Gaza to the south of Gaza the
main artery running through the strip
has been open today uh to try to
encourage some of the civilians that
were Sheltering in the north to take
that Road South but many of them are
still feel that it's still too unsafe to
take that that road and and we
understand that up to 400,000 civilians
could still be Sheltering in the north
of Gaza the north of the Gaza Strip and
meanwhile Mark the intense negotiations
continue and the Diplomatic front
Anthony blinkin uh finishing off his
tour of the area and and still pushing
to get a humanitarian pause agreed by
Israel to allow more Aid in but he
doesn't seem to have had any Joy on that
front yet has he
well well not overtly no I mean the
Israeli Prime Minister has said there
will be no humanitarian pause until
there is progress on the 240 or so
Israeli hostages that were seized by
Hamas more than four weeks ago now one
idea that has been moted by yosa Burell
the eu's foreign policy Chief this
morning is that potentially um if uh
Hamas were to allow uh the Red Cross the
icrc international commit Committee of
the Red Cross to access the hostages
then maybe could the quid pro quo could
be a humanitarian pause but at the
moment there is no sign of that being
being agreed to um Anthony blinken did
say as he was leaving Baghdad last night
before he went to Turkey today that uh
us and Israeli teams are working
together to try to address the pract
work through the practicalities of of a
humanitarian pause so even though
Netanyahu overtly and publicly is being
very rigid on this I suspect that behind
closed doors it is rather more nuanced
um because it is clear that uh you know
if Israel is going to get any make any
progress or any any Headway about the
release of these hostages uh it's not
going to come while the while the
bombardment continues okay thanks very
much Mark loen for us there in southern
Israel let's just show you some pictures
from Jerusalem these are family members
uh relatives of those who have been
taken hostage in Gaza holding a protest
outside the Israeli Parliament there in
Jerusalem